chore(skills): [VLOP-116] add ship-ui-bundle skill for downstream bundle PRs (#120)
valory-xyz/agent-ui-monorepo: .claude/skills/ship-ui-bundle/SKILL.md

---
name: ship-ui-bundle
description: Open the downstream PR that ships a built agent-ui-monorepo bundle into the agent repo that serves it (meme-ooorr / optimus / connect / trader). Takes a monorepo release tag (e.g. `v0.1.2-connect`), downloads that release's `*-ui-build.zip`, replaces the vendored bundle directory in the target repo, re-locks open-autonomy package hashes when the bundle lives under `packages/`, and opens the `chore: update …` PR. Repo-specific to agent-ui-monorepo.

> argument-hint: "<release-tag> [--repo-path <existing-clone>] [--no-pr]  # e.g. v0.1.2-connect. --repo-path reuses a local clone of the target repo (skips clone + uv sync). --no-pr stops after the local commit."

Reviewer: **Missing `disable-model-invocation: true`.**

The repo's only other skill, `triage-security`, sets it. This one force-resets branches, and pushes and opens PRs **in other teams' repos** — so the model can auto-trigger it from ambient conversation about releases.

§6's "ask the user to confirm before pushing" is prose guidance *inside* the skill; it doesn't help if the skill fires unprompted in the first place. `argument-hint` already matches `triage-security`'s convention — worth matching this field too.

Notes that repeatedly trip people up:

- **agentsfun-ui ships to `meme-ooorr`, not `trader`.** Agents.fun is the `memeooorr` agent. `trader` only hosts predict-ui (both markets).
- **One zip, two/three destinations.** `babydegen-ui-build.zip` and `predict-ui-build.zip` are agent-specific builds — `REACT_APP_AGENT_NAME` is injected at build time from the tag suffix. Never copy a `-modius` zip into `optimus-ui-build/`; the bundle is not interchangeable.
- **A repo having a `packages/` directory says nothing about whether its bundle sits inside it.** `connect` has one but currently vendors at `connect/assets/ui`. §4 tests the staged diff, so a bundle that moves under `packages/` starts re-locking on its own.
- **`README.md` inside a vendored bundle dir may or may not be a build output.** `connect-ui-build.zip` ships one (a copy of `apps/connect-ui/README.md`); meme-ooorr's bundle dir has none. The §3 preserve-then-overwrite order is correct for both: the build's copy wins where the zip has one, and an agent-repo-authored one survives where it doesn't. Do not "simplify" it into a plain `rm -rf` of the whole directory.

---

## 1 — Preflight

```bash
set -euo pipefail

> for cmd in gh git unzip jq; do command -v "$cmd" >/dev/null || { echo "missing: $cmd" >&2; exit 1; }; done

Reviewer 2: tiny, `jq` is preflighted but never used anywhere in the doc — either drop it, or use it in §4 where the `grep|awk|head` chain parses `packages.json` (jq is the honest tool for that file anyway). up to you

gh auth status >/dev/null || { echo "run: gh auth login" >&2; exit 1; }
```

Resolve the tag argument to a row in the target map. Derive:

```
TAG                 # e.g. v0.1.2-connect  (as given)
SUFFIX=${TAG#v*.*.*-}   # connect | modius | optimus | basius | agentsfun | omenstrat-trader | polystrat-trader

> VERSION             # e.g. 0.1.2

Reviewer: Nit: `SUFFIX` gets an expansion on the line above, `VERSION` gets only a comment — but it's consumed in the §3 branch name (L91). Worth spelling out, e.g. `VERSION=${TAG#v}; VERSION=${VERSION%%-*}`.

```

If invoked without a tag, list the recent releases on each line and ask which to ship:

```bash
gh release list --repo valory-xyz/agent-ui-monorepo --limit 20
```

If the suffix does not match a row, **stop**. Do not guess a target directory — a wrong guess writes an incompatible bundle into a live agent.

## 2 — Fetch the release asset

```bash
WORK="${TMPDIR:-/tmp}/ship-ui-bundle/$TAG"
rm -rf "$WORK" && mkdir -p "$WORK/bundle"
gh release download "$TAG" --repo valory-xyz/agent-ui-monorepo \
  --pattern '<ASSET>' --dir "$WORK"
unzip -q "$WORK/<ASSET>" -d "$WORK/bundle"
```

> Verify the unpacked bundle before touching the target repo:

Reviewer 2: please let's also verify **provenance** here, not just asset shape — this is the load-bearing guarantee of the whole skill and right now it's trust-based. `_build-app.yml` triggers on **any pushed tag** (no ancestor-of-main check), so a tag on an unreviewed local commit produces a legit-looking release with a legit CI-built asset, and this skill would ship it. same for a hand-replaced asset (`gh release upload --clobber`) — nothing here would notice. both checks are one `gh api` call each (I verified them against the live repo: `compare/main...v0.1.2-connect` → `behind`, uploader → `github-actions[bot]`):

````suggestion
Verify **provenance** before unpacking — the release must be CI's build of reviewed code on `main`, not a tag pushed on a stray commit or a hand-replaced asset:

```bash
REPO=valory-xyz/agent-ui-monorepo
STATUS=$(gh api "repos/$REPO/compare/main...$TAG" -q .status)
[ "$STATUS" = behind ] || [ "$STATUS" = identical ] \
  || { echo "$TAG is not on main (status: $STATUS) — ship only merged, reviewed code" >&2; exit 1; }
gh api "repos/$REPO/releases/tags/$TAG" \
  -q '[.draft, .prerelease, (.assets[] | select(.name=="<ASSET>") | .uploader.login)] | @tsv'
# expect: false  false  github-actions[bot] — anything else: stop and report to the user
```

Verify the unpacked bundle before touching the target repo:
````

- `index.html` exists at the root of `$WORK/bundle`.
- Every `src`/`href` in `index.html` that points at `/assets/…` resolves to a file that exists in `$WORK/bundle/assets/`.
- There is exactly one `assets/index-*.js`.

A release whose asset is missing means the build workflow failed or is still running — check `gh run list --repo valory-xyz/agent-ui-monorepo --workflow <app>-build.yml` and stop.

## 3 — Prepare the target repo

Reuse a persistent clone; `trader` and `optimus` are large and the `uv sync` in §4 is expensive to redo.

```bash
CLONE="${REPO_PATH:-$HOME/.cache/agent-ui-bundle-prs/<repo-name>}"
[ -d "$CLONE/.git" ] || gh repo clone <owner/repo> "$CLONE"
git -C "$CLONE" fetch origin --prune

> git -C "$CLONE" checkout main && git -C "$CLONE" reset --hard origin/main

Reviewer: **The destructive reset runs before the guard meant to prevent it.**

L94 says: *"If `--repo-path` was given and its worktree is dirty, **stop and report** — do not reset over someone's work."* That guard sits four lines *after* the `reset --hard` it guards.

An agent reading top-to-bottom force-resets the user's clone, then checks whether it should have.

Move the check above this block:

```bash
if [ -n "${REPO_PATH:-}" ] && [ -n "$(git -C "$CLONE" status --porcelain)" ]; then
  echo "refusing to reset dirty worktree: $CLONE" >&2; exit 1
fi
```

> git -C "$CLONE" checkout -b "chore/update-<variant>-ui-v$VERSION"

Reviewer: Nit: fails with "branch already exists" when re-shipping the same version. Worth `-B`, or an existence check — the skill handles the other re-run case (empty diff, L109) gracefully, so this is the odd one out.

> git -C "$CLONE" checkout -b "chore/update-<variant>-ui-v$VERSION"

Reviewer 2: tiny, `checkout -b` fails on a rerun if the branch survived a previous attempt — since the name is fully tag-derived and machine-owned, `checkout -B` is probably right here. can ignore

```

> If `--repo-path` was given and its worktree is dirty, **stop and report** — do not reset over someone's work.

Reviewer 2: please let's move this guard **above** the code block — a session following the doc top-to-bottom runs `checkout main && reset --hard origin/main` first and reads "do not reset over someone's work" second, at which point the work is gone. ideally as code so it can't be skimmed past:

```bash
# with --repo-path: refuse a dirty tree BEFORE any checkout/reset
[ -z "$(git -C "$CLONE" status --porcelain)" ] \
  || { echo "worktree dirty — commit/stash first, not resetting over it" >&2; exit 1; }
```

> Swap the bundle. Deleting first is what makes stale hashed assets disappear; a plain copy leaves orphaned `index-*.js` files behind and the bundle grows every release.
> 
> ```bash
> DEST="$CLONE/<bundle-dir>"
> # keep README.md — see the note above; the zip's copy overwrites it when present

Reviewer 2: can we guard the delete? the doc itself warns "bundle directories move" and `<bundle-dir>` is filled in at run time — a wrong-but-existing path gets `rm -rf`'d wholesale. one line turns "wipe" into "stop":

```suggestion
DEST="$CLONE/<bundle-dir>"
[ -f "$DEST/index.html" ] || { echo "$DEST has no index.html — bundle dir moved? confirm against the repo tree" >&2; exit 1; }
# keep README.md — see the note above; the zip's copy overwrites it when present
```

> find "$DEST" -mindepth 1 -maxdepth 1 ! -name README.md -exec rm -rf {} +

Reviewer: **`$DEST` is unguarded before a recursive delete.**

`<bundle-dir>` (L99) is a placeholder the model substitutes, and L29 explicitly warns *"Bundle directories move. Confirm the path against the target repo's tree before writing."*

If that substitution comes back empty — moved path, unresolved lookup — `DEST` becomes `"$CLONE/"`, and `-mindepth 1 -maxdepth 1` then matches every top-level entry in the clone, `.git` included, and `rm -rf`s it.

One line closes it:

```bash
case "$DEST" in "$CLONE"|"$CLONE/") echo "bad DEST: $DEST" >&2; exit 1;; esac
[ -d "$DEST" ] || { echo "missing bundle dir: $DEST" >&2; exit 1; }
```

cp -r "$WORK/bundle/." "$DEST/"

> git -C "$CLONE" add -A "<bundle-dir>"

Reviewer: **The re-lock output never gets committed.**

This stages narrowly — scoped to `<bundle-dir>`. But §4's `autonomy packages lock` then modifies `packages/packages.json` plus the cascading `skill.yaml` / `aea-config.yaml` / `service.yaml` files, all **outside** the bundle dir. §5 (L152) is a bare `git commit -m` with no `-a` and no second `add`.

Following this literally on any `packages/` target: the lock runs, `lock --check` passes locally, the PR opens, and CI's `check-hash` fails because none of the refreshed hashes are in the commit — precisely the failure §4 exists to prevent.

Compounding it, the failure-modes table attributes that symptom to "§4 skipped", which sends the reader looking in the wrong place.

Fix: add `git -C "$CLONE" add -A` at the end of §4 (after the blast-radius check), or make §5 `commit -a`.

git -C "$CLONE" status --short
```

> Sanity-check the staged diff: it should be an `index.html` one-line `<script src>` change plus a deleted + added `assets/index-*.js` pair (GitHub renders these as a rename), and nothing outside the bundle dir. If `README.md` shows as deleted, the `find` filter did not apply — fix before continuing.

Reviewer 2: tiny, vite also emits `assets/index-*.css` (and other hashed assets when they change), so a strict reader of this line would flag a perfectly normal diff. maybe "…plus deleted+added hashed asset pairs (`index-*.js`, `index-*.css`, …)"?

An **empty** staged diff means the repo already vendors this exact release — not a failure. Report it and stop rather than committing nothing.

On Windows, `git add` emits `LF will be replaced by CRLF` warnings for the bundle's text files. These are benign: git normalises to LF in the index, which is why re-applying an already-shipped release yields an empty diff rather than a whole-file rewrite.

## 4 — Re-lock package hashes (only when the diff touches `packages/`)

```bash
git -C "$CLONE" diff --cached --name-only | grep -q '^packages/' && NEEDS_LOCK=1 || NEEDS_LOCK=0
```

Vendored bundles under `packages/` are part of an open-autonomy package, so their content hash is fingerprinted in `packages/packages.json` and propagated into the dependent `skill.yaml`, `aea-config.yaml` and `service.yaml` files. CI (`tomte tox -e check-hash` / `autonomy packages lock --check`) fails the PR without this step.

> **All four commands are required, in order.** The committed `packages/` tree is a *sparse* registry — it holds only this repo's own packages, not the third-party ones (`valory/kv_store`, `abstract_round_abci`, `mech_interact_abci`, …) that its packages depend on. Hashing walks the full dependency graph, so `lock` fails outright until `sync` has fetched them:

Reviewer: Nit: the block below lists **five** commands — `uv sync`, `autonomy init`, `packages sync`, `packages lock`, `lock --check` — and `init` is separately described as "once per machine" and, in the ⚠️ at L135, as something to hand back to the user. Ambiguous which four are meant.

> `Error: Connection configuration not found: …/packages/valory/connections/kv_store/connection.yaml`

```bash
cd "$CLONE"
uv sync --all-groups                    # ~2 min first run, cached after

> AUTHOR=$(grep 'service/' packages/packages.json | awk -F/ '{print $2}' | head -1)

Reviewer: Unguarded, and it bypasses a declared dependency: on no match `AUTHOR` silently becomes empty and `autonomy init --author ""` fails opaquely.

`jq` is required by preflight (L44) but never used anywhere in the skill. This would be both more robust and consistent with the stated dep:

```bash
AUTHOR=$(jq -r '.dev | keys[] | select(startswith("service/"))' packages/packages.json | head -1 | cut -d/ -f2)
[ -n "$AUTHOR" ] || { echo "could not derive author" >&2; exit 1; }
```

> uv run autonomy init --reset --author "$AUTHOR" --ipfs --remote   # once per machine

Reviewer 2: same ordering issue as §3 — the ⚠️ "check `~/.autonomy` exists and say so before running" note sits *below* the block that already ran `init --reset` (which overwrites the machine-global open-autonomy config). can we move the warning above the block, or gate it in code?

```bash
if [ ! -d ~/.autonomy ]; then
  uv run autonomy init --reset --author "$AUTHOR" --ipfs --remote
fi
# ~/.autonomy already exists → tell the user and let them decide, don't overwrite
```

this also fixes the `# once per machine` comment contradicting the block running it every time.

```

If unrelated packages move, the clone is stale — re-fetch `main` and redo. A good pre-flight sanity check is that `lock --check` passes on **untouched** `main`; if it doesn't, the local toolchain disagrees with what the maintainers committed and nothing downstream can be trusted.

**If neither `uv` nor a working Python env is available:** do not fake the hashes and do not open the PR claiming it is ready. Commit the bundle, then stop and report that the re-lock is outstanding, quoting the two commands above.

## 5 — Commit

```bash
git -C "$CLONE" commit -m "chore: update <variant>-ui to $TAG"
```

Match the surrounding repo's commit style — these agent repos use plain `chore:` subjects with no trailer. Do **not** add a Co-Authored-By trailer unless the repo's history shows one.

## 6 — Push and open the PR

**Ask the user to confirm before pushing.** Show them the staged file list and the branch name first; pushing and opening a PR in another team's repo is outward-facing and should not happen implicitly. Skip §6 entirely under `--no-pr`.

```bash
git -C "$CLONE" push -u origin "chore/update-<variant>-ui-v$VERSION"
gh pr create --repo <owner/repo> --base main \

>   --title "chore: update <variant>-ui to $TAG" --body-file "$WORK/pr-body.md"

Reviewer: **`--body-file` points at a file nothing creates.**

No step writes `$WORK/pr-body.md`. The body template at L169 is a fenced block with nothing connecting the two, so `gh pr create` fails on a missing file at the final, outward-facing step.

Either wrap the template in `cat > "$WORK/pr-body.md" <<'EOF' … EOF`, or switch to `--body`.

# keep README.md — see the note above; the zip's copy overwrites it when present
find "$DEST" -mindepth 1 -maxdepth 1 ! -name README.md -exec rm -rf {} +
cp -r "$WORK/bundle/." "$DEST/"
git -C "$CLONE" add -A "<bundle-dir>"
git -C "$CLONE" status --short
```

Sanity-check the staged diff: an `index.html` one-line `<script src>` change, plus deleted + added hashed-asset pairs (`index-*.js`, `index-*.css`, and any other hashed asset that changed — GitHub renders these as renames), and nothing outside the bundle dir. If `README.md` shows as deleted, the `find` filter did not apply — fix before continuing.

An **empty** staged diff means the repo already vendors this exact release — not a failure. Report it and stop rather than committing nothing.

On Windows, `git add` emits `LF will be replaced by CRLF` warnings for the bundle's text files. These are benign: git normalises to LF in the index, which is why re-applying an already-shipped release yields an empty diff rather than a whole-file rewrite.

## 4 — Re-lock package hashes (only when the diff touches `packages/`)

```bash

> git -C "$CLONE" diff --cached --name-only | grep -q '^packages/' && NEEDS_LOCK=1 || NEEDS_LOCK=0

Reviewer: `NEEDS_LOCK` is computed but never read — nothing below branches on it, so an agent running §4 top-to-bottom executes the whole block on connect too, despite the heading saying "only when the diff touches `packages/`".

I checked whether connect falls through cleanly: it doesn't. connect *does* have `packages/packages.json`, and its `.dev` contains `service/valory/connect/0.1.0` — so the `jq` extraction succeeds, `AUTHOR=valory`, and nothing errors out or stops.

The lock itself is a no-op there (the bundle sits at `connect/assets/ui`, outside any package), but you still pay `uv sync` (~2 min) plus a `packages sync`, and on a machine with no `~/.autonomy` you get a global `autonomy init` that L149 otherwise takes care to avoid. It also puts connect on the `add -A` path from the other comment for no reason.

Wrapping the block in `[ "$NEEDS_LOCK" = 1 ]` makes the heading true in code.

```bash
git -C "$CLONE" status --short          # expect bundle files + packages.json + the cascade, nothing else
```

If unrelated packages move, the clone is stale — re-fetch `main` and redo. A good pre-flight sanity check is that `lock --check` passes on **untouched** `main`; if it doesn't, the local toolchain disagrees with what the maintainers committed and nothing downstream can be trusted.

**Stage the lock output.** §3 staged only `<bundle-dir>`, but everything `lock` just rewrote — `packages/packages.json` and the cascading yaml — sits *outside* it. Skip this and §5 commits the bundle alone: `lock --check` still passes locally, the PR opens looking correct, and CI's `check-hash` fails on the very hashes §4 exists to refresh.

```bash

> git -C "$CLONE" add -A

Reviewer: `add -A` here contradicts the invariant stated at L167 — *"`sync` writes only into gitignored/tracked-unchanged paths — it **must not** add untracked files to `git status`. If it does, stop"*. When that invariant breaks, which the doc explicitly anticipates, this unconditionally sweeps whatever `sync` left behind into the downstream PR.

The check on the next line can't catch it either: `git diff --name-only` only reports tracked modifications, so untracked files never appear there regardless of how many were created. It passes either way.

Most likely to bite on `trader` / `meme-ooorr`, since those are the untested ones.

`add -u` is exactly sufficient — §3 already staged the new bundle files, and `lock` only *modifies* files that already exist:

```bash
git -C "$CLONE" add -u                  # tracked modifications only — the lock output
git -C "$CLONE" status --porcelain      # staged entries only; any '??' means sync misbehaved
```
